# Async vs Defer

> Frontend Interview Questions

1. What is Async and defer?
2. Difference between async and defer attributes?
3. When should I use defer over async?
4. Examples of scenarios covering async and defer

**_When we load a webpage, two major things will happen in browser:_**

1. **_html parsing_**
2. **_loading of the scripts_**

   _loading of the scripts contains two parts:_

   1. **fetching the script from n/w**
   2. **executing the script line by line**

> The \<script\> tag can have three attributes that affect how the script is loaded and executed: no attribute, async, and defer. Each of these attributes serves a different purpose, and they impact when and how the script is executed in relation to the HTML document and other scripts.

**_No Attribute (Synchronous Execution):_**

Scripts without the async or defer attribute are executed synchronously, which means they block the parsing of the HTML document.
The browser will pause HTML parsing, download and execute the script, and then continue parsing the HTML.
Scripts without attributes are typically placed in the <head> section or at the end of the <body>. If placed in the <head>, they can delay the rendering of the page because the entire script must be fetched and executed before rendering continues.
Use this for critical scripts that need to run immediately or if the script relies on the DOM structure created above it.

```html
<script src="script.js"></script>
```

**_Async Attribute (Asynchronous Execution):_**

The async attribute tells the browser to fetch and execute the script asynchronously while not blocking the HTML parsing.
The script is executed as soon as it's downloaded, which means its execution order is not guaranteed, and it may run before the HTML is fully parsed.
Use async for scripts that can run independently of other scripts and do not depend on the DOM being fully ready.

```html
<script async src="script.js"></script>
```

**_Defer Attribute (Deferred Execution):_**
The defer attribute also allows asynchronous loading of the script, but it ensures that the script is executed in order, after the HTML document has been parsed, but before the DOMContentLoaded event.
Multiple scripts with the defer attribute will execute in the order they appear in the HTML.
Use defer for scripts that need access to the DOM but don't need to run before the HTML is fully parsed.

```html
<script defer src="script.js"></script>
```

> In summary, the choice between no attribute, async, and defer depends on the specific requirements of your scripts and their dependencies on the DOM. If a script doesn't depend on the DOM structure and can run independently, use async. If a script needs access to the DOM but can wait until the document is fully parsed, use defer. If a script is critical and should run immediately, use no attribute, but be aware that it might block rendering until it's executed.
